v7.5 Changelog (#6005)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v6.0.

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v7.5 - Feature Release](#release-v7-5-feature-release)
- [Release v7.4 - Feature Release](#release-v7-4-feature-release)
- [Release v7.3 - Feature Release](#release-v7-3-feature-release)
- [Release v7.2 - Feature Release](#release-v7-2-feature-release)
- [Release v7.1 - Extended Support Release](#release-v7-1-extended-support-release)

## Release v7.5 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**v7.5.0 release day: 2022-11-16**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - Adds a new schema migration to ensure ``ParentId`` column is dropped from the ``Posts`` table. Depending on the table size, if the column is not dropped before, a significant spike in database CPU usage is expected on MySQL databases. Writes to the table will be limited during the migration.

Reviewer: "if the column is not dropped before" -- before what? Is "before" needed? Would the sentence be correct if "before" was removed?

Author: @calebroseland Please help confirm.

Reviewer 2: I think this one may have been from @isacikgoz ?

Author: Correct, pinged a wrong person accidentally. @isacikgoz please help confirm the above question from Carrie.

 - For ``PluginRegistry.registerCustomRoute``, when you register a custom route component, you must specify a CSS ``grid-area`` in order for it to be placed properly into the root layout (recommended: ``grid-area: center``).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v7.4, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Compatibility
 - Updated the minimum version of Chrome to v106+ and the minimum version of Edge to 95+.

### Highlights

#### Boards

#### Calls

>  - Added new message threads with emoji reactions and at-mentions to Calls. After joining a call, expand the widget to the window mode and then click the comment button to access the real-time message thread in the right-hand sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added new message threads with emoji reactions and at-mentions to Calls. After joining a call, expand the widget to the window mode and then select the comment button to access the real-time message thread in the right-hand sidebar.
```

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Renamed "Starter" plan to "Free" plan in product.
 - Added a new grid-based layout to the right-hand side and globalized the right-hand side and the Apps Bar.
 - A confirmation modal is now displayed before a user marks all threads as read.
 - Added the ability to hide the “required” asterisk in the App Field.
 - Added a fading effect to the Apps Modal body while an Apps Modal is refreshing.
 - Insights now filters out posts made by plugins and OAuth apps.

>  - Added a “Last active” status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online. This status only displays for users who are Away, Offline, or DND. This can be disabled via **Settings > Display > Share last active time**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added a “Last active” status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online. This status only displays for users who are Away, Offline, or in do-not-disturb (DND). This can be disabled via **Settings > Display > Share last active time**.
```

 - Added a shortcut ``Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + U`` to filter channels by unread.
 - The default number of **Direct Message** channels shown in the sidebar is now 40.
 - Added Insights to the channel switcher.
 - Added a button to easily copy the content of text or code files in file previews.
 - The team unread icon for muted channels is now hidden in the sidebar.
 - Added the ability to create a new channel along with a new board associated with the created channel.
 - Added markdown formatting for hyperlinks when pasted into the text editor.
 - Email notifications from new messages now also support displaying Slack attachments from the channel post.
 - Updated NPS plugin to version 1.3.0.

#### Administration

>  - After 90 days since the day of missing a payment, Admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Starter subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - After 90 days since missing a payment, Admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Starter subscription.
```

 - Autocompletion results using Elasticsearch or Bleve will correctly show a user as a channel member in Direct Message and Group Message channels. To force this change to appear, a re-indexing will be necessary.

>  - Introduced an Invite Guests upsell prompt to self-hosted.

Reviewer: Do we want to say "upsell" or "prompt"?

>  - Added JSON-compatible nested config value parsing from environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added JSON-compatible nested configuration value parsing from environment variables.
```

>  - An AD/LDAP upsell banner is now shown for self-hosted instances with a Professional license when visiting the invite guests modal.

Reviewer: similar terminology question about "upsell"

>  - Self-hosted Admins now see "User Groups" in the product switcher with a CTA to start a trial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Self-hosted Admins now see "User Groups" in the product switcher with a call to action (CTA) to start a trial.
```

 - Added logic to package product version of Boards with production builds.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where Enterprise features labeled as "Professional Feature" appeared in the **System Console** sidebar.
 - Fixed an issue where the transparency for PNG images in image previews and thumbnails was not preserved.
 - Fixed an issue where screen readers failed to announce “No results found” in the Direct Message modal.
 - Fixed an issue where minipreview data was not generated nor stored for images imported from Slack.

>  - Fixed the error message that appears on the **Reset Password** page when inputting a password with fewer than 5 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed the error message that appears on the **Reset Password** page when inputting a password with fewer than five characters.
```

 - Fixed an issue where 404 errors were shown when APIv4 had an incorrect content-type header.
 - Fixed an issue where messages from bots and webhooks could not be forwarded.
 - Fixed an issue where inline images did not appear in the channel header.
 - Fixed an issue with the emoji skin tone selector animation.
 - Fixed an issue where the screen reader did not announce a successful login when logging in.
 - Fixed a few broken links at **System Console > User Management > Permission Schemes**.
 - Fixed an issue where users were able to forward messages to users who are deactivated.
 - Fixed an issue where "Threads" were not shown in the unread filter view even if there weren't unread threads.
 - Fixed an issue where the user’s full name was not shown when adding people to a channel via the ``Add people`` modal.
 - Fixed an issue where formatting keyboard shortcuts were conflicting with existing shortcuts.
 - Fixed an issue where the markdown style for horizontal rules was too thick.
 - Fixed an issue where the emoji reaction overlay blocked part of the message it belonged to in compact view.
 - Fixed an issue with incorrect mention counts in unread channels.

>  - Fixed an issue where the cursor displayed as a pointer instead of as an arrow in embedded Youtube preview images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the cursor displayed as a pointer instead of as an arrow in embedded YouTube preview images.
```

 - Fixed an issue where formatting was applied to selected spaces after a word.
 - Fixed an issue where an error with an option to refetch data was not displayed and instead a blank screen was shown when there was a failure fetching Cloud data.
 - Fixed an issue where screen readers did not announce that the channel interface language dropdown in **Settings > Display > Language > Change** is a dropdown.
 - Fixed a bug where role filters weren't being applied for ``GetProfilesInChannel``.
 - Fixed an issue where the guest onboarding checklist contained an “Invite team members” link as a tour point.

>  - Fixed an issue where the “Enterprise license is expired” banner was non-dismissible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the **Enterprise license is expired** banner was non-dismissible.
```

>  - Fixed an issue where the “Renew Now” option was not showing in-product and always defaulted to Contact Sales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the **Renew Now** option was not showing in-product and always defaulted to Contact Sales.
```

 - Fixed an issue where ``getPostSince`` didn't properly return deleted posts when Collapsed Reply Threads was enabled.
 - Fixed an issue where ``OwnerId`` was not set for bots created via ``EnsureBotUser``.

### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``TeamSettings`` in the ``config.json``:

>     - Added ``EnableLastActiveTime`` to add a “Last active” status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Added ``EnableLastActiveTime`` to add a **Last active** status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online.
```

### API Changes

>  - Added a new response-header ``First-Inaccessible-File-Time`` to the APIs fetching single file info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added a new response-header ``First-Inaccessible-File-Time`` to the APIs fetching single file information.
```

#### Boards

#### Playbooks

#### Calls

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Renamed "Starter" plan to "Free" plan in product.
 - Added a new grid-based layout to the right-hand side and globalized the right-hand side and the Apps Bar.
 - A confirmation modal is now displayed before a user marks all threads as read.
 - Added the ability to hide the “required” asterisk in the App Field.
 - Added a fading effect to the Apps Modal body while an Apps Modal is refreshing.
 - Insights now filters out posts made by plugins and OAuth apps.
 - Added a “Last active” status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online. This status only displays for users who are Away, Offline, or DND. This can be disabled via **Settings > Display > Share last active time**.
 - Added a shortcut ``Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + U`` to filter channels by unread.
 - The default number of **Direct Message** channels shown in the sidebar is now 40.
 - Added Insights to the channel switcher.
 - Added a button to easily copy the content of text or code files in file previews.
 - The team unread icon for muted channels is now hidden in the sidebar.

>  - Updated the designs for the “payment failed” email notifications.

Reviewer 3: Payment emails are only applicable to cloud. We can remove this one

 - Added the ability to create a new channel along with a new board associated with the created channel.

>  - Added the ability for end users to notify their Admins to reactivate a paid plan during the delinquency period by selecting “Notify admin to update billing”.

Reviewer 3: Delinquency is also only applicable to Cloud.

 - Added markdown formatting for hyperlinks when pasted into the text editor.
 - Email notifications from new messages now also support displaying Slack attachments from the channel post.
 - Updated NPS plugin to version 1.3.0.

#### Administration
 - After 90 days since the day of missing a payment, Admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Starter subscription.

>  - Added a credit card update modal that communicates arrears for Admins.

Reviewer 3: Also related to delinquency in Cloud. We can remove

>  - After 90 days since missing a payment, Admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Starter subscription.

Reviewer 4: Should this be "Free subscription" since we've changed the name from "Starter" to "Free"?

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where Enterprise features labeled as "Professional Feature" appeared in the **System Console** sidebar.
 - Fixed an issue where the transparency for PNG images in image previews and thumbnails was not preserved.
 - Fixed an issue where screen readers failed to announce “No results found” in the Direct Message modal.
 - Fixed an issue where minipreview data was not generated nor stored for images imported from Slack.
 - Fixed the error message that appears on the **Reset Password** page when inputting a password with fewer than 5 characters.
 - Fixed an issue where ``Get categories`` with the "exclude" option did not return categories for deleted teams a user was no longer a member of.
 - Fixed an issue where a randomly generated default message-ID was not added for every outgoing email.
 - Fixed an issue where custom groups could be created with at-mention names that are reserved words (@channel, @here, @all).
 - Fixed an issue where 404 errors were shown when APIv4 had an incorrect content-type header.
 - Fixed an issue where messages from bots and webhooks could not be forwarded.

>  - Fixed an issue where the **Integrations limit** warning modal stated "You're getting closer to the 5 enabled integrations limit" even when 5 plugins were already enabled.

Reviewer 3: Integration limits are only applicable in Cloud - we can remove this as well.

 - The new Insights feature has some performance costs that we are working to optimize. This feature can be disabled by setting the ``MM_FEATUREFLAGS_INSIGHTSENABLED`` environment variable to ``false``.
 - Adding an @mention at the start of a post draft and pressing the left or right arrow key can clear the post draft and the undo history [MM-33823](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-33823).
 - Google login fails on the Classic mobile apps.
 - Status may sometimes get stuck as **Away** or **Offline** in High Availability mode with IP Hash turned off.
 - Searching stop words in quotation marks with Elasticsearch enabled returns more than just the searched terms.
 - The team sidebar on the desktop app does not update when channels have been read on mobile.
 - Slack import through the CLI fails if email notifications are enabled.
 - Push notifications don't always clear on iOS when running Mattermost in High Availability mode.
 - Boards are not refreshing on creation. See the [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/discussions/1971) for more information.

>  - Boards export and reimport results in duplicates boards because all IDs are replaced by new ones on the server. See the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/1924) for more information.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - Boards export and reimport results in duplicates boards because all IDs are replaced by new ones on the server. See the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/1924) for more information.
 - Boards linked to a channel you're a member of do not automatically appear on your sidebar unless you're an explicit member of the board. As a workaround, you can access the board from the channel RHS or by searching for the board via the board switcher (Ctrl/Cmd +K). Alternatively, you can ask the board admin to add you to the board as an explicit member. See the [issue-focalboard-4179](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/4179) for more details.
```

Reviewer 5: @amyblais We discovered a known issue for this release.

### Important Upgrade Notes

 - Adds a new schema migration to ensure ``ParentId`` column is dropped from the ``Posts`` table. Depending on the table size, if the column is not dropped before, a significant spike in database CPU usage is expected on MySQL databases. Writes to the table will be limited during the migration.
 - For ``PluginRegistry.registerCustomRoute``, when you register a custom route component, you must specify a CSS ``grid-area`` in order for it to be placed properly into the root layout (recommended: ``grid-area: center``).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v7.4, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Compatibility
 - Updated the minimum version of Chrome to v106+ and the minimum version of Edge to 95+.

### Highlights

#### Calls

>  - Added new message threads with emoji reactions and @mentions to Calls. After joining a call, expand the widget to the window mode, and then select the comment button to access the real-time message thread in the right-hand sidebar.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Added new message threads with emoji reactions and @mentions to calls. After joining a call, expand the widget to the window mode, and then select the comment button to access the real-time message thread in the right-hand sidebar.
```

 - A confirmation modal is now displayed before a user marks all threads as read.
 - Added the ability to hide the “required” asterisk in the App Field.
 - Added a fading effect to the Apps Modal body while an Apps Modal is refreshing.
 - Insights now filters out posts made by plugins and OAuth apps.
 - Added a shortcut ``Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + U`` to filter channels by unread.
 - The default number of **Direct Message** channels shown in the sidebar is now 40.
 - Added Insights to the channel switcher.
 - Added a button to easily copy the content of text or code files in file previews.
 - The team unread icon for muted channels is now hidden in the sidebar.
 - Added the ability to create a new channel along with a new board associated with the created channel.
 - Added markdown formatting for hyperlinks when pasted into the text editor.
 - Email notifications from new messages now also support displaying Slack attachments from the channel post.
 - Updated NPS plugin to version 1.3.0.
 - Downgraded Bulgarian, Persian, and Simplified Chinese language support to Alpha.

#### Administration

>  - After 90 days since missing a payment, Admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Free subscription.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - After 90 days since missing a payment, admins will see a modal where they can choose between updating the billing status or staying on the Free subscription.
```

>  - Autocompletion results using Elasticsearch or Bleve will correctly show a user as a channel member in Direct Message and Group Message channels. To force this change to appear, a re-indexing will be necessary.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Autocomplete results using Elasticsearch or Bleve will correctly show a user as a channel member in direct message and group message channels. To force this change to appear, a re-indexing will be necessary.
```

Reviewer 6: Is this "correctly" or "incorrectly"?

 - Introduced an **Invite Guests** prompt to self-hosted.
 - Added JSON-compatible nested configuration value parsing from environment variables.
 - An AD/LDAP prompt banner is now shown for self-hosted instances with a Professional license when visiting the invite guests modal.
 - Self-hosted Admins now see "User Groups" in the product switcher with a call to action (CTA) to start a trial.
 - Added logic to package product version of Boards with production builds.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where Enterprise features labeled as "Professional Feature" appeared in the **System Console** sidebar.
 - Fixed an issue where the transparency for PNG images in image previews and thumbnails was not preserved.

>  - Fixed an issue where screen readers failed to announce “No results found” in the Direct Message modal.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where screen readers failed to announce “No results found” in the direct message modal.
```

 - Fixed an issue where minipreview data was not generated nor stored for images imported from Slack.
 - Fixed the error message that appears on the **Reset Password** page when inputting a password with fewer than five characters.
 - Fixed an issue where ``Get categories`` with the "exclude" option did not return categories for deleted teams a user was no longer a member of.

>  - Fixed an issue where a randomly generated default message-ID was not added for every outgoing email.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where a randomly-generated default message-ID wasn't added for every outgoing email.
```

>  - Fixed an issue where custom groups could be created with at-mention names that are reserved words (@channel, @here, @all).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where custom groups could be created with @mention names that are reserved words (@channel, @here, @all).
```

    - Added ``EnableLastActiveTime`` to add a **Last active** status to the profile popover and to the **Direct Message** channel header that indicates when a user was last online.

### API Changes
 - Added a new response-header ``First-Inaccessible-File-Time`` to the APIs fetching single file information.
 - Added a new query parameter to include deleted posts as long as it's requested by a System Admin in ``/api/v4/channels/{channel_id}/posts``.
 - Added new plugin endpoints to ``PermissionService`` interface.

### Go Version
 - v7.5 is built with Go ``v1.18.1``.

### Known Issues
 - The **More** menu for Pinned posts on the right-hand side is cut-off [MM-46987](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-46987).
 - The new Insights feature has some performance costs that we are working to optimize. This feature can be disabled by setting the ``MM_FEATUREFLAGS_INSIGHTSENABLED`` environment variable to ``false``.
 - Adding an @mention at the start of a post draft and pressing the left or right arrow key can clear the post draft and the undo history [MM-33823](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-33823).
 - Google login fails on the Classic mobile apps.

>  - Status may sometimes get stuck as **Away** or **Offline** in High Availability mode with IP Hash turned off.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Status may sometimes get stuck as **Away** or **Offline** in high availability mode with IP Hash turned off.
```

 - Searching stop words in quotation marks with Elasticsearch enabled returns more than just the searched terms.
 - The team sidebar on the desktop app does not update when channels have been read on mobile.
 - Slack import through the CLI fails if email notifications are enabled.
 - Push notifications don't always clear on iOS when running Mattermost in High Availability mode.
 - Boards are not refreshing on creation. See the [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/discussions/1971) for more information.
 - Boards export and reimport results in duplicates boards because all IDs are replaced by new ones on the server. See the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/1924) for more information.

>  - Boards linked to a channel you're a member of do not automatically appear on your sidebar unless you're an explicit member of the board. As a workaround, you can access the board from the channel RHS or by searching for the board via the board switcher (Ctrl/Cmd+K). Alternatively, you can ask the board Admin to add you to the board as an explicit member. See the [issue-focalboard-4179](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/4179) for more details.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Boards linked to a channel you're a member of do not automatically appear on your sidebar unless you're an explicit member of the board. As a workaround, you can access the board from the channel RHS or by searching for the board via the board switcher (Ctrl/Cmd+K). Alternatively, you can ask the board admin to add you to the board as an explicit member. See the [issue-focalboard-4179](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/4179) for more details.
```

**v7.5.0 release day: 2022-11-16**

Mattermost v7.5.0 contains a medium severity level security fix. [Upgrading](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/upgrading-mattermost-server.html) to this release is recommended. Details will be posted on our [security updates page](https://mattermost.com/security-updates/) 30 days after release as per the [Mattermost Responsible Disclosure Policy](https://mattermost.com/security-vulnerability-report/).

### Important Upgrade Notes

 - Adds a new schema migration to ensure ``ParentId`` column is dropped from the ``Posts`` table. Depending on the table size, if the column is not dropped before, a significant spike in database CPU usage is expected on MySQL databases. Writes to the table will be limited during the migration.
 - For ``PluginRegistry.registerCustomRoute``, when you register a custom route component, you must specify a CSS ``grid-area`` in order for it to be placed properly into the root layout (recommended: ``grid-area: center``).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v7.4, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Compatibility

>  - Updated the minimum version of Chrome to v106+ and the minimum version of Edge to 95+.

Reviewer 7: I'm a bit confused as Chrome and Edge are using the same code base (chromium) so when Chrome should be at v106+ then Edge needs to be on the same version
